README.md, before:

# psmodulecache

This action makes caching PowerShell modules from the PowerShell Gallery easy for both Linux and Windows runners. Basically, it builds all of the required input for [actions/cache@v2](https://github.com/actions/cache).

If you're using GitHub Actions to test projects that rely on PowerShell modules like PSFramework or dbatools, this caches those modules so they aren't downloaded from the PowerShell Gallery over and over again.

## Documentation

Just copy the code below and modify the line **`modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester, dbatools`** with the modules you need.

If you need to use `RequiredVersion`, add a colon then the version: **`modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester:4.10.1, dbatools:1.0.0`**

Once GitHub supports [using actions in composite actions](https://github.com/actions/runner/issues/646), there will be a lot less code (just the `Set required PowerShell modules` section). But until then, here's a sample workflow.

```yaml
    - name: Create variables for module cacher
      id: psmodulecache
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3
      with:
        modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester, dbatools
    - name: Run module cacher action
      id: cacher
      uses: actions/cache@v2
      with:
        path: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.modulepath }}
        key: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.keygen }}
    - name: Install PowerShell modules
      if: steps.cacher.outputs.cache-hit != 'true'
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3
```

## Usage

### Pre-requisites
Create a workflow `.yml` file in your repositories `.github/workflows` directory. An [example workflow](#example-workflow) is available below. For more information, reference the GitHub Help Documentation for [Creating a workflow file](https://help.github.com/en/articles/configuring-a-workflow#creating-a-workflow-file).

### Inputs

* `modules-to-cache` - A comma separated list of PowerShell modules to install or cache.
* `shell` - The default shell to use. Defaults to pwsh. Options are pwsh or powershell.
* `allow-prerelease` - Allow prerelease during Save-Module. Defaults to true.
* `force` - Force during Save-Module. Defaults to true.

### Outputs

* `keygen` - Auto-generated cache key for actions/cache@v2 based on OS and needed modules
* `modulepath` - The PowerShell module path directory

### Cache scopes
The cache is scoped to the key and branch. The default branch cache is available to other branches. 

### Example workflows

Using pwsh on Ubuntu

```yaml
on: [push]

jobs:
  run-on-linux:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    - name: Create variables for module cacher
      id: psmodulecache
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3
      with:
        modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester, dbatools:1.0.0
    - name: Run module cacher action
      id: cacher
      uses: actions/cache@v2
      with:
        path: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.modulepath }}
        key: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.keygen }}
    - name: Install PowerShell modules
      if: steps.cacher.outputs.cache-hit != 'true'
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3
    - name: Show that the Action works
      shell: pwsh
      run: |
          Get-Module -Name PSFramework, Pester, dbatools -ListAvailable | Select Path
```

Using powershell on Windows. pwsh also works and is the default.

```yaml
on: [push]

jobs:
  run-on-windows:
    runs-on: windows-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    - name: Create variables for module cacher
      id: psmodulecache
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3
      with:
        modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester, dbatools:1.0.0
    - name: Run module cacher action
      id: cacher
      uses: actions/cache@v2
      with:
        path: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.modulepath }}
        key: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.keygen }}
    - name: Install PowerShell modules
      if: steps.cacher.outputs.cache-hit != 'true'
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3
    - name: Show that the Action works
      shell: pwsh
      run: |
          Get-Module -Name ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.modules-to-cache }} -ListAvailable | Select Path
          Import-Module PSFramework
```

## Cache Limits
A repository can have up to 5GB of caches. Once the 5GB limit is reached, older caches will be evicted based on when the cache was last accessed.  Caches that are not accessed within the last week will also be evicted.

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome!

## TODO
* Add support for additional custom repositories (may be out of scope?)
* Once GitHub supports actions in composite actions, only the following will be required!

```yaml
    - name: Set required PowerShell modules
      id: psmodulecache
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v1
      with:
        modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester, dbatools
```

## License
The scripts and documentation in this project are released under the [MIT License](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Version 3.5 - Add support for installing to both pwsh and PowerShell (#13)

README.md, after:

# psmodulecache

This action makes caching PowerShell modules from the PowerShell Gallery easy for both Linux and Windows runners. Basically, it builds all of the required input for [actions/cache@v2](https://github.com/actions/cache).

If you're using GitHub Actions to test projects that rely on PowerShell modules like PSFramework or dbatools, this caches those modules so they aren't downloaded from the PowerShell Gallery over and over again.

## Documentation

Just copy the code below and modify the line **`modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester, dbatools`** with the modules you need.

If you need to use `RequiredVersion`, add a colon then the version: **`modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester:4.10.1, dbatools:1.0.0`**

Once GitHub supports [using actions in composite actions](https://github.com/actions/runner/issues/646), there will be a lot less code (just the `Set required PowerShell modules` section). But until then, here's a sample workflow.

```yaml
    - name: Create variables for module cacher
      id: psmodulecache
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3.5
      with:
        modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester, dbatools
    - name: Run module cacher action
      id: cacher
      uses: actions/cache@v2
      with:
        path: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.modulepath }}
        key: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.keygen }}
    - name: Install PowerShell modules
      if: steps.cacher.outputs.cache-hit != 'true'
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3.5
```

## Usage

### Pre-requisites
Create a workflow `.yml` file in your repositories `.github/workflows` directory. An [example workflow](#example-workflow) is available below. For more information, reference the GitHub Help Documentation for [Creating a workflow file](https://help.github.com/en/articles/configuring-a-workflow#creating-a-workflow-file).

### Inputs

* `modules-to-cache` - A comma separated list of PowerShell modules to install or cache.
* `shell` - The default shell to use. Defaults to pwsh. Options are `pwsh`, `powershell` or `pwsh, powershell` for both pwsh and powershell on Windows.
* `allow-prerelease` - Allow prerelease during Save-Module. Defaults to true.
* `force` - Force during Save-Module. Defaults to true.

### Outputs

* `keygen` - Auto-generated cache key for actions/cache@v2 based on OS and needed modules
* `modulepath` - The PowerShell module path directory

### Cache scopes
The cache is scoped to the key and branch. The default branch cache is available to other branches. 

### Example workflows

Using pwsh on Ubuntu

```yaml
on: [push]

jobs:
  run-on-linux:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    - name: Create variables for module cacher
      id: psmodulecache
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3.5
      with:
        modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester, dbatools:1.0.0
    - name: Run module cacher action
      id: cacher
      uses: actions/cache@v2
      with:
        path: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.modulepath }}
        key: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.keygen }}
    - name: Install PowerShell modules
      if: steps.cacher.outputs.cache-hit != 'true'
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3.5
    - name: Show that the Action works
      shell: pwsh
      run: |
          Get-Module -Name PSFramework, Pester, dbatools -ListAvailable | Select Path
```

Using powershell on Windows. pwsh also works and is the default.

```yaml
on: [push]

jobs:
  run-on-windows:
    runs-on: windows-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    - name: Create variables for module cacher
      id: psmodulecache
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3.5
      with:
        modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester, dbatools:1.0.0
    - name: Run module cacher action
      id: cacher
      uses: actions/cache@v2
      with:
        path: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.modulepath }}
        key: ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.keygen }}
    - name: Install PowerShell modules
      if: steps.cacher.outputs.cache-hit != 'true'
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v3.5
    - name: Show that the Action works
      shell: pwsh
      run: |
          Get-Module -Name ${{ steps.psmodulecache.outputs.modules-to-cache }} -ListAvailable | Select Path
          Import-Module PSFramework
```

## Cache Limits
A repository can have up to 5GB of caches. Once the 5GB limit is reached, older caches will be evicted based on when the cache was last accessed.  Caches that are not accessed within the last week will also be evicted.

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome!

## TODO
* Add support for additional custom repositories (may be out of scope?)
* Once GitHub supports actions in composite actions, only the following will be required!

```yaml
    - name: Set required PowerShell modules
      id: psmodulecache
      uses: potatoqualitee/psmodulecache@v1
      with:
        modules-to-cache: PSFramework, Pester, dbatools
```

## License
The scripts and documentation in this project are released under the [MIT License](LICENSE)
